as China's yuan has been devalued
several percent against the US dollar in
2016 we look to 2017 and expect it to
continue as a result China has decided
to initiate more strict capital controls
while claiming this isn't capital
controls there is also the suggestion
that China may increase its sales of US
Treasuries in 2017 in order to keep the
yuan from crashing you came here for the
truth so let me on me on that for you
let's look at this today this situation
involving particularly China and the US
turning over
first to this article out of the Global
Times China's new rules on cash
transactions and overseas transfers are
not capital controls an economist with
the central bank said dismissing
concerns about tightening restrictions
on capital outflows I do believe that's
exactly what's happening and they're
simply just covering it up let's just
briefly cover what has happened banks
will be required to report all you want
denominated transactions exceeding
50,000 yuan that's about $7,000 to the
People's Bank of China down from the
current level of 200,000 you want this
is the kind of thing you you see all
over the map you just see this
tightening occurring you're not able to
transfer externally anymore you start to
see all different sides tightening on
you it's not just one very obvious thing
it happens sort of little steps
cross-border transfers of more than
200,000 yuan by individuals will also be
subject to the report process in terms
of foreign currencies the report
threshold remains the equivalent of
10,000 u.s. dollars for both cash
transactions and overseas transfers and
basically they're trying to impose as
they say here trying to impose capital
controls in in the disguise form and I
do believe that is accurate
the government realizes that there is
capital outflows that are occurring
right now and they are trying to slow
that down and they're do so this is not
the first time this has happened they
sort of you know go in the seesaw action
a little bit here a little give-and-take
alright so let's move on here to the
next article it's all interconnected
here ma Maas comments this is not Jack
Ma of course it's a analyst I believe
follow the annual January first reset at
the 50 thousand dollar limit for
individuals which may potentially
aggravate capital outflow pleasured
pressures that have been intensifying
after the yuan suffered its steepest
annual slump in more than two decades so
this is what has been happening you know
as of January they're allowed to take
out $50,000 and this allows them to
basically get it out and that's what
they do so at the beginning of the year
you tend to see that however seem to
have been a different situation I'm
gonna forward ahead to this article the
yuan shed nearly seven percent against
the dollar last year it's poor showing
since 1994 as policymakers struggled to
contain capital up flows and preserve
foreign exchange reserves in the face of
a slowing economy and resurgent dollar
one of the things that was interesting
about this article was basically it said
that not as many people were selling as
they expected so we'll see though it's
very early in the month of January let's
see how that really all plays out let's
go back to this article here this is key
I do believe because ultimately China
holds the u.s. in the palm of their
hands I believe this is very very
powerful this is a currency war that has
been going on not just on one side I do
believe that this is double-sided China
may further sell US Treasuries in 2017
if needed to keep the you'ens
exchange rate
stable the people said adding that the
size of the reduction will depend on the
capital outflows and market intervention
so of course how kinda responds to that
and maybe they're going to have more of
the interjection by the central bank
maybe they're going to have more of the
bailout type schemes you know we've seen
it all take place where they intervene
how they intervene how much they
intervene will determine whether or not
they are going to continue selling off
US Treasuries in 2016 we saw that occur
but they obviously have a massive pile
of it it's not something that's going to
happen overnight
the nation's holdings of Treasuries
declined to the lowest in more than six
years in October as the world's second
largest economy used its currency
reserve to support the yuan this is
something that has been going on over
the years
it's nothing new it goes up and down and
up and down but it is the trend which we
need to watch out for I always say this
look it's not important if they sell
just a little bit today and all of a
sudden everyone panics no but if that
trend continues month after month after
month we start to see that we start to
really be able to take those inferences
and begin to sort of plan ahead China's
currency stockpiles probably shrunk
further after hitting a five-year low of
three trillion dollars in November
according to the median estimate this
here is in fact a large number compared
to any nation that you look at three
trillion dollars really shows the
significance of China's holdings and
they have the power now I believe it is
well over one trillion dollars just in
US debt so they can really do damage to
the US should they choose to let's move
on here and Southeast Asia's worst
performing currency of 2016 is in for
another
tough year with the president of the
Philippines spending plans boosting
imports just as rising interest rates
for capital outflows the peso in the
Philippines is suffering right now I
thought it would be important to see
that this tends to be good though for
exports so look to the Philippines over
the next let's say six months and try to
tie that in all together with how it
works for their for their imports and
their exports I'm going to keep covering
that I think that would be an
interesting thing to look at because
this is as I've said before similar to
what another peso this time in Mexico as
you saw that back about two decades ago
saw what they did
Swedes looking for forward to a six hour
work they just got some bad news the
cost I weighed the benefit so basically
they did a two-year experiment where
they had these individuals working at a
six hour time frame unfortunately what
happened in this case they had to
actually hire more staff it cost more
money it said though that they basically
live better lives as a result there were
sick less they were healthier but it did
cost more so it's goes to show you that
there is definitely a trade-off there
they need to increase efficiency somehow
but this was an experiment I thought it
was interesting to show you what exactly
happened in this very very limited
experiment that went on for about two
years
Venezuela right now obviously it's
suffering obviously there had the
hyperinflation look at this the military
taking over the food supply the military
taking over the food supply but if you
want food from an alternate source not
the military don't worry it's available
for you and all you have to pay is 100
times the government set price that's
right you're going to get it from the
black mark
no worries but it's going to cost you
100 times more if you're in Venezuela I
don't want to tell anybody what to do
but if I was there I'd run for the hills
alright and last but not least Amazon's
robot army grows by 50% robots actually
pretty amazing the efficiency here
of these robots it's like it's amazing
like rats running around there's so many
of them in 45 thousand of them in fact
in just 20 fulfillment centers so the
individual instead of having to go if
you watch the video here instead of
having to go walk down this massive
warehouse find that item pick it off the
shelf bring it down the robots
automatically bring them all to the
individual and you know there's
different shelves you're all marked they
take that they just reach their hand and
grab it and put it in the box eventually
they'll figure out a way for this all to
be automated but at this time the
efficiency is insane it is showing you
that in fact ultimately these jobs
although there are increasing increasing
because the Amazon is expanding as a
company I do believe in the long run
there's going to be some major major job
losses in this field if you found this
video informative please give me a
thumbs up last but not least if you
found the video informative I know you
will find my book the money GPS even
more informative I've taken this very
complicated subject it made it easy by
using charts and diagrams if you want to
look through the book you can actually
head over to Amazon where they have a
look inside feature that will allow you
to flip through the pages of the book
and see if you like it take care I just
want to say hello to all of the new
subscribers out there there has been a
recent surge
in the subscribership here on the money
GPS hello to each and every one of you I
just wanted to let you know that on this
channel it's a little different than
what you've seen before any suggestions
that you make I actually turn them into
videos you new comment below I actually
read those I actually reply not to every
single person but basically I try to get
as many comments as I can reply to
within the first day or two and then
basically I have to move on to the next
videos it's just simply just too many so
wanted to let you know that and never
stop commenting never stop giving me
those thumbs up thumbs down if you don't
like it give me a thumbs down you know
and that's all for this video
take care